92 VOLUNTAS DEI ew.

I think we must regard man's God—conscious
life in this way. Under the fostering care of God
it is the highest development of creation in this
world. And all spiritual activities seem to arise
from man's consciousness that when he is most
alone, in the sense of having retired within himself
from the things of sense, he is in company with
another spirit and can have distinct dealings with
that other, dealings which we may describe by the
new word ‘⁴ telepathic,'' for that is the only word
that expresses the communion of two intelligences
without sensuous medium. God must be able to
convey something from His own supreme intelli-
gence to man through man's power of thought,
otherwise religion were impossible. For man, in any
whole or wholesome condition, cannot have a feel—
ing without a concomitant thought, cannot have a
religious feeling without concomitant thought. It
is evident that if the Supreme Intelligence com-
municates with man, it must be by such means as
thought can interpret, and we know nothing more
than this of influences we call telepathic. The
self, if it finds God, certainly finds Him within,
in the sense that it is within that the self speaks
to God and God speaks to the self. This belief is
not pantheistic3 there is no identity of the self
with God. Identity would put an end to all com-
munication, for, as we have seen, all true union
depends on difference. The self must be able to
say, “ God is mine, and not me‚'' otherwise to love
God were impossible, or to know Him, 01· to serve
Him freely.

In its highest condition the self must have that

