CHAPTER IX

SON OF GOD

WE have been secking to realise that perfect right-
ness of conscious endeavour must bring man into
complete union with God, and that, therefore,
when we find in history a man who is proclaimed
righteou8‚ and who also asserts his union with
God, there is a presumption that we are dealing
with fact, not myth. But our minds ought not
for a moment to rest in the idea that union with
God depends only on conscious ethical achieve—
ment. Every man comes into the world with an
outfit of body and mind which conditions his
ethical life3 but more potent, probably, than
heredity is early influence. Physique, tempera-
ment, experience———these act and interact upon
one another, combining to evoke from a thousand
inherited possibilities that subtle thing we call
character. To narrow down our conception of
character to the result of personal moral effort
makes it a shallow notion. The present writer
knew two sisters, born of the same parents, reared

in the same nursery, equally intellectual, one of
whom lavished more tendet· sympathy on a

109

