CHAPTER VIII

SON OF MAN

LET us again examine human consciousness con—
cerning the possibilities of humanity, remembering
that we are picturing to ourselves human con—
sciousness as the highest terrestrial product of
autonomous life under the persuasive influence of
divine love. Man everywhere, as he ascends in
intelligence, is inwardly convinced that he is able
to do right. Although it is often possible to argue
away instinctive conviction, I think it will be
admitted that this 1s man' s instinctive conviction.
(The fact that there are men so oppressed with
the sense of unrighteousness in themselves and
others that they regard unrighteousness as a disease
of the race rather than as a voluntary act, hardly
impairs the universality of the conviction of which
Ι speak, because the very hypothesis of disease
and defect implies a falling short of what ought to
be. Disease implies the juxtaposition of a standard
of health 3 defect implies the juxtaposition of per—
fection; the whole point of view involves the
recognition of sin as something abnormal over
against the normal.) We note that at the same

101

