CHAPTER XX

SA LVATION ΒΥ JOY

CHRisTiAN repentance ought to be a glad thing.
The command to it is coupled With the proclama-
tion that the Kingdom of God is at hand. It is
the turning from the beggarly elements of our
dead selves and the expectation of novel gifts
from God. The true penitent turns from bad
dreams of a hard God to the Divine Love whose
gentleness shall make him great. The true
penitent turns, in every department of life, from
the abnormal to the normal, and exchanges the
garment of heaviness for the spirit of praise.

So far I have been urging that if vve believe
that the Christian's God created the universe and
manifested himself in Christ, We are bound to
infer His universal favour for all His creatures.
It is no longer possible for us to suppose that God
is partial‚ that any part of His creation can be
excluded from His favour. It would appear that
creation can be progressive or retrograde3 any
portion of it can please God more and more, or
can grieve Him more and more perhaps till the
term of particular life is reached, and the particular

267

